Rickymac68 patch 4 (#23)
Cardano-Atlantic-Council/Minutes: 20250321.md

### Meeting Minutes

**Cardano Atlantic Council Meeting**

**Date:** March 21, 2025 19:00 UTC

**Attendees:** 
- Beatrice Anihiri
- Thiago Nunes
- Adam Dean
- Mike Hornan
- Jenny Brito
- Richard McCracken

**Purpose:** 
1. The meeting aimed to discuss and vote on a governance proposal concerning the Cardano treasury's net change limit. Adam Dean confirmed that five out of six members were present, meeting the quorum requirement.  They also noted the proposal's impact on the budget.

**Summary:**

> >The Cardano NCL proposal meeting, attended by all CAC members, debated a proposal altering the net change limit, focusing on its constitutionality and ambiguity regarding definitions and timeframes.  Key disagreements centered on the interpretation of "net change limit," "period of time," and the use of "shall" in the proposal, leading to a tentative vote failing to reach consensus threshol to deem it constitutional.  The group decided to postpone the final vote until Monday, after asynchronous deliberation, with a final on-chain vote by April 4th.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
>The Cardano NCL proposal meeting, attended by all CAC members, debated a proposal altering the net change limit, focusing on its constitutionality and ambiguity regarding definitions and timeframes.  Key disagreements centered on the interpretation of "net change limit," "period of time," and the use of "shall" in the proposal, leading to a tentative vote failing to reach consensus threshold to deem it constitutional or unconstitutional.  The group decided to postpone the final vote until Monday, after asynchronous deliberation, with a final on-chain vote by April 4th.
```

**Meeting Points:**

> 1. **Resolve Script Hash and Mutability**
>  - Suggested linking the proposal text to an IPFS link to ensure reference stability in case the original text changes.
> - Agreed to post the hashes of the files voted upon in the rationale.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. **Resolve Script Hash and Mutability**
  - Suggested linking the proposal text to an IPFS link to ensure reference stability in case the original text changes.
  - Agreed to post the hashes of the files voted upon in the rationale.
```

> 2. **Debate points on the NCL proposal**
> - Opponents cited insufficient analysis of long-term impact, lack of clarity on its start and end dates, and disagreement on how the net change limit is defined in the constitution. They specifically highlighted the ambiguity in the interpretation of the "net change limit".
>  - Contention with a defined "period of time" for the net change limit. In favor members argued that the proposal defines this period as the year 2025, while opposed countered that different interpretations of a fiscal year were possible.
>  - In favor, explained that the net change limit remains in effect until a new one is submitted and approved. Opposed, interpretation that the proposal lacks clarity on how long it applies.
> - In favor, interpreted the proposal as setting a maximum withdrawal of 570 million ADA for 2025 and 500 million for 2026. The opposed disagreed, arguing that the wording could allow for much higher spending than intended.
> - A few team members emphasized the need for explicit values in the proposal to avoid ambiguity. Others agreed that implied meanings can lead to varied interpretations and potential problems.
>  - Add to the meeting minutes suggesttions on crafting better budget rationales in the meeting notes, regardless of the voting outcome.
>  -  Unsuccessful previous attempts to define a clearer budget process through CIPs faced resistance. Using the CIP process got shot down before https://github.com/cardano-foundation/CIPs/pull/936
>  - Team member who participated in many events voiced that this topic of NCL was not allowed to be discussed in Buenos Aires and the workshops.
> 
> Initial straw vote results: Constitutional - 2, Unconstitutional - 2, Abstain - 1, Undecided - 1

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. **Debate points on the NCL proposal**
  - Opponents cited insufficient analysis of long-term impact, lack of clarity on its start and end dates, and disagreement on how the net change limit is defined in the constitution. They specifically highlighted the ambiguity in the interpretation of the "net change limit".
  - Contention with a defined "period of time" for the net change limit. In favor members argued that the proposal defines this period as the year 2025, while opposed countered that different interpretations of a fiscal year were possible.
  - In favor, explained that the net change limit remains in effect until a new one is submitted and approved. Opposed, interpretation that the proposal lacks clarity on how long it applies.
  - In favor, interpreted the proposal as setting a maximum withdrawal of 570 million ADA for 2025 and 500 million for 2026. The opposed disagreed, arguing that the wording could allow for much higher spending than intended. (**Note:** these numbers were estimates based on the suggested inflow rates of revenue to the Treasury in 2025 and 2026 cited by the proposal itself)
  - A few team members emphasized the need for explicit values in the proposal to avoid ambiguity. Others agreed that implied meanings can lead to varied interpretations and potential problems.
  - Add to the meeting minutes suggesttions on crafting better budget rationales in the meeting notes, regardless of the voting outcome.
  -  Unsuccessful previous attempts to define a clearer budget process through CIPs faced resistance. Using the CIP process got shot down before https://github.com/cardano-foundation/CIPs/pull/936
  - Team member who participated in many events voiced that this topic of NCL was not allowed to be discussed in Buenos Aires and the workshops.
  - Initial straw vote results: Constitutional - 2, Unconstitutional - 2, Abstain - 1, Undecided - 1
```

> 3. **Further debate on the NCL proposal**
>  - Debate surrounded the interpretation of the word "shall" in the governance action's rationale, and citing RFC 2119, argued "shall" implied a mandatory requirement, thus making the attempt to set a higher threshold than the constitutionally mandated one illegal.
>  -  Opponents indicated potential legal liability if the governance action were deemed constitutional but did not meet the self-imposed higher threshold. They highlighted the scenario where the committee would have approved a budget despite not meeting the 67% threshold specified in the proposal, leading to possible legal challenges.
>  - Proponents acknowledged the concern over the gray area between 51% and 67%, where confusion among the community and validity of the results could arise.
>  -  The group ultimately concluded that the action's attempt to impose a higher threshold, while not entirely opaque, was a major issue contributing to its unconstitutionality.
>  -  Due to time constraints and the need for further consideration, the group decided to postpone a final vote.  They agreed to allow time for reflection and discussion over the weekend, followed by a poll on Monday before casting the final on-chain vote by April 4th.
> 
> Straw vote after extenstive debate: Constitutional - 1, Unconstitutional - 3, Undecided - 2

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. **Further debate on the NCL proposal**
  - Debate surrounded the interpretation of the word "shall" in the governance action's rationale, and citing RFC 2119, argued "shall" implied a mandatory requirement, thus making the attempt to set a higher threshold than the constitutionally mandated one unconstitutional.
  -  Opponents indicated potential legal liability if the governance action were deemed constitutional but did not meet the self-imposed higher threshold. They highlighted the scenario where the committee would have approved a budget despite not meeting the 67% threshold specified in the proposal, leading to possible legal challenges.
  - Proponents acknowledged the concern over the gray area between 51% and 67%, where confusion among the community and validity of the results could arise.
  -  The group ultimately concluded that the action's attempt to impose a higher threshold, while not entirely opaque, was a major issue contributing to its unconstitutionality.
  -  Due to time constraints and the need for further consideration, the group decided to postpone a final vote.  They agreed to allow time for reflection and discussion over the weekend, followed by a poll on Monday before casting the final on-chain vote by April 4th.
  - Straw vote after extensive debate: Constitutional - 1, Unconstitutional - 3, Undecided - 2
```
